Example usage of kafka endpoints as an input and output for triton server using Python API (#92)
triton-inference-server/tutorials: Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/examples/kafka-io/README.md

# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

# Triton Inference Server Kafka I/O Deployment

Using the Triton Inference Server In-Process Python API you can
integrate triton server based models into any Python framework
to consume the messages from a Kafka topic and produce the inference results
back to the kafka topic of choice.

This directory contains an example Triton Inference Server
deployment based on Kafka I/O that uses threads for each of server, consumer and producer.

| [Installation](#installation) | [Run Deployment](#starting-the-pipeline) | [Send Requests](#send-requests-to-deployment) |

## Installation

In this Kafka I/O pipeline we deploy a pre-processing stage of tokenization based on `transformers` tokenization module and can be extended to any type of models as needed.

### Pre-requisite
1. [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

### Starting docker container
Once you have the docker service up and running, launch a container by executing the following command:

```bash

> docker run --rm -it --gpus all -v <path>/<to>/tutorials/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/examples/kafka-io/:/opt/tritonserver/kafka-io -w /opt/tritonserver/kafka-io  --entrypoint bash nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:24.03-py3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker run --rm -it --gpus all -v <path>/<to>/tutorials/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/examples/kafka-io/:/opt/tritonserver/kafka-io -w /opt/tritonserver/kafka-io  --entrypoint bash nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:24.06-py3
```
The versions you pinned correspond to the present, so let's bump the container version to 24.06. In my last run through I used 24.06 with no issue.

Author: Updated

```

*Note: Skip this step if you have mounted the git repository from local directory to the docker container*

### Install dependencies

Please note that installation times may vary depending on
your hardware configuration and network connection.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If triton server is not already installed, install the dependency by using the following command.

```bash
pip install /opt/tritonserver/python/tritonserver-2.44.0-py3-none-any.whl
```

Next run the provided `start-kafka.sh` script that will perform the following actions:
1. Download kafka and it's dependencies
2. Start Kafka service by starting Zookeeper and Kafka brokers
3. Create 2 new topics with names `inference-input` as input queue and `inference-output` to store the inference results

```bash
chmod +x start-kafka.sh
./start-kafka.sh
```

## Starting the pipeline

### Start the inference pipeline

Run the provided `start-server.sh` script that will perform the following actions:
1. Export Kafka Producer and Consumer configs, topic names for input and output topics, model name and repositories.
2. Start the server.

```bash
chmod +x start-server.sh
./start-server.sh
```

> 

Reviewer: add:

When your console outputs something similar to:
```
2024-07-18 21:55:38,254 INFO api.py:609 -- Deployed app 'default' successfully.
```
It means that the server has started successfully. You can press `Ctrl+C` and proceed to the next steps.

Author: Updated

# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

# Triton Inference Server Kafka I/O Deployment

Using the Triton Inference Server In-Process Python API you can
integrate triton server based models into any Python framework
to consume the messages from a Kafka topic and produce the inference results
back to the kafka topic of choice.

This directory contains an example Triton Inference Server
deployment based on Kafka I/O that uses threads for each of server, consumer and producer.

| [Installation](#installation) | [Run Deployment](#starting-the-pipeline) | [Send Requests](#send-requests-to-deployment) |

## Installation

In this Kafka I/O pipeline we deploy a pre-processing stage of tokenization based on `transformers` tokenization module and can be extended to any type of models as needed.

### Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials.git
cd tutorials/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/examples/kafka-io
```

> ### Install dependencies

Reviewer: We probably want a step before this demonstrating how to pull a container and mount the folder.

Author: will add in the docker command to pull the triton image and exec into it

Author: Updated

> Please note the following command will take many minutes depending on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that installation times may vary depending on
```
Want to avoid telling the user that anything may be slow so we don't dissuade them from trying it.

Author: Updated

your hardware configuration and network connection.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If triton server is not already installed, install the dependency by using the following command.

```bash

> pip install /opt/tritonserver/python/tritonserver-2.44.0-py3-none-any.whl

Reviewer: I misread this originally and assumed it was the client wheel. We definitely need to install this as I encountered issues later on attempting to import `tritonserver`.

> pip install /opt/tritonserver/python/tritonserver-2.44.0-py3-none-any.whl

Author: marking this as resolved

```

> In order to run kafka server, we need to download and start the kafka service, execute the below script that starts the kafka service in the background by doing the following:

Author: Updated

1. Download kafka
2. Start Kafka service by starting Zookeeper and Kafka brokers
3. Create 2 new topics with names `inference-input` as input queue and `inference-output` to store the inference results

```bash
chmod +x start-kafka.sh
./start-kafka.sh
```

In case, you see any issues starting the server, make sure the system has java installed. If there is no java installed, please follow the instructions below to install java.

```bash
apt-get update
apt-get upgrade

> apt install openjdk-17-jdk openjdk-17-jre

Reviewer: I did encounter issues running the `start-kafka.sh` script due to missing these packages. Since our aim is to leverage a container to run this tutorial, I think we should add these packages to the `requirements.txt`, with their versions pinned.

Author: Taken care of this by moving the java installation into kafka script.

```

Once successfully installed, you should see an output similar to the output shown below

```bash
java --version
openjdk 17.0.10 2024-01-16
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 17.0.10+7-Ubuntu-122.04.1)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 17.0.10+7-Ubuntu-122.04.1, mixed mode, sharing)
```

## Starting the pipeline

### Start the inference pipeline

Start the pipeline in the background using the following command once you have logged into the triton container

```bash
export CONSUMER_CONFIGS='{"bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9092", "security.protocol": "PLAINTEXT", "group.id": "triton-server-kafka-consumer"}'

> export PRODUCER_CONFIGS='{"bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9092", "security.protocol": "PLAINTEXT"}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export PRODUCER_CONFIGS='{"bootstrap.servers": "localhost:9092", "security.protocol": "PLAINTEXT"}'
export KAFKA_CONSUMER_MAX_WORKER_THREADS=1
```
Since you reference it below, it may be nice to include it here for clarity.

Author: Updated

# PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
# OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
# (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
# OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
-->

# Triton Inference Server Kafka I/O Deployment

Using the Triton Inference Server In-Process Python API you can
integrate triton server based models into any Python framework
to consume the messages from a Kafka topic and produce the inference results
back to the kafka topic of choice.

This directory contains an example Triton Inference Server
deployment based on Kafka I/O that uses threads for each of server, consumer and producer.

| [Installation](#installation) | [Run Deployment](#starting-the-pipeline) | [Send Requests](#send-requests-to-deployment) |

## Installation

In this Kafka I/O pipeline we deploy a pre-processing stage of tokenization based on `transformers` tokenization module and can be extended to any type of models as needed.

### Pre-requisite
1. [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

### Starting docker container

> Once you have the docker service up and running, `ssh` into the container by executing the following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the docker service up and running, launch a container by executing the following command:
```

Author: Updated

```bash
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint bash nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:24.03-py3
```

Alternatively, if you have already downloaded the git repository into your local system, you can mount the folder to the docker image using the below command

```bash

> docker run --rm -it -v <path>/<to>/tutorials/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/examples/kafka-io/:/opt/tritonserver/kafka-io --entrypoint bash nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:24.03-py3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker run --rm -it --gpus all -v <path>/<to>/tutorials/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/examples/kafka-io/:/opt/tritonserver/kafka-io --entrypoint bash nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:24.03-py3
```

Author: updated with gpu flag

```

Once you have successfully logged into the docker container, execute
```bash
cd /opt/tritonserver/kafka-io
```

> ### Clone Repository

Author: updated
